docs/examples/how_do_i.md, before:

# @title How Do I...?

# How Do I...?

## Items

### Get an Item

Items and Groups are referred to by their name:

```ruby
My_Item
```

```ruby
gWindowBlinds
```

Items can be retrieved dynamically:

```ruby
the_item = items['My_Item'] # This returns an item object, not just its state
# For all intents and purposes, the_item variable is the same as My_Item in the previous example
```

### Get the Item's Name as a String

```ruby
My_Item.name
```

### Get the Item's Label

```ruby
My_Item.label
```

### Get a Related Item

```ruby
my_light_item = items[My_Switch.name.sub('_Switch', '_Light')]
```

### Send a Command to an Item

These three variants do the same thing:

```ruby
My_Item.on
```

```ruby
My_Item.command ON
```

```ruby
My_Item << ON
```

Note: all possible commands are supported on the corresponding item types, e.g. `on`, `off`, `up`, `down`, `play`, `pause`, `stop`, etc. 
For more details, see the individual item type sub-sections under {OpenHAB::Core::Items}

### Send a Command to an Item Only When Its State is Different

```ruby
My_Item.ensure.on
```

```ruby
My_Item.ensure.command ON
```

```ruby
My_Item.ensure << ON
```

### Send a Timed Command

A {OpenHAB::DSL::Items::TimedCommand Timed Command} is similar to the OpenHAB Item's 
[expire parameter](https://www.openhab.org/docs/configuration/items.html#parameter-expire)
but it offers more flexibility. It removes the need to manually create a timer.

```ruby
My_Switch.on for: 5.minutes
```

### Send an Update to an Item

```ruby
My_Switch.update ON
```

### Get State of an Item

The Item's state is accessible through `Item.state`.

```ruby
if My_Item.state == ON
  # do something
end

# This syntax is equivalent and preferred:
if My_Item.on?
  # do something
end

if Indoor_Temperature.state > 20 | '°C' || Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state
  # do something
end
```

Note: all boolean helper methods are available depending on the item / state type.
For example `up?`, `down?`, `closed?`, `open?`, etc.

### Check if an Item's state is NULL of UNDEF

```ruby
if My_Item.state?
  logger.info 'My_Item is not NULL nor UNDEF'
end
```

### Compare Item's State

```ruby
String_Item.state == 'test string'
Number_Item.state > 5.3
items['Number_Item'].state == 10

Temperature_Item.state > 24 | '°C'
Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state 
Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state + 5 | '°C'
Indoor_Temperature.state - Outdoor_Temperature.state > 5 | '°C'
```

### Get the Thing Linked to an Item

```ruby
linked_thing = My_Item.thing
thing_uid = My_Item.thing.uid
```

### Get All Linked Things

An item can be linked to multiple things.

```ruby
My_Item.things.each do |thing|
  logger.info("Thing: #{thing.uid}")
end
```

## Groups

### Get the Members or All Members of a Group

```ruby
# direct members
gTest.members

# direct members and all their descendents
gTest.all_members
```

### Intersection of Two Groups

Group members work like a [Ruby array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Array.html) 
so you can use `&` for intersection, `|` for union, and `-` for difference.

```ruby
curtains_in_family_room = gFamilyRoom.members & gCurtains.members
```

### Iterate Over Members of a Group

```ruby
gTest.members.each do |item|
  # process item
end

# Iterate over all members, including members of members
gTest.all_members.each do |item|
  # process item
end
```

### Filter Members of a Group

```ruby
members_that_are_on = gTest.members.select(&:on?)

# exclude state
members_that_are_not_on = gTest.members.reject(&:on?)

# Filter with code:
high_temperatures = gTemperatures.members.select(&:state?).select { |item| item.state > 30 | '°C' }
```

See [Accessing elements in a Ruby array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Array.html#class-Array-label-Accessing+Elements).

### Get a sorted list of Group members matching a condition

```ruby
sorted_items_by_battery_level = gBattery.members
                                        .select(&:state?) # only include non NULL / UNDEF members
                                        .select { |item| item.state < 20 } # select only those with low battery
                                        .sort_by(&:state) 
```

### Get a List of Values Mapped from the Members of a Group

```ruby
battery_levels = gBattery.select(&:state?) # only include non NULL / UNDEF members
                         .sort_by(&:state)
                         .map { |item| "#{item.label}: #{item.state}" } # Use item state default formatting
```

### Perform Arithmetic on Values from Members of a Group

```ruby
weekly_rainfall = gRainWeeklyForecast.members.sum(&:state)
```

## Rules

### Create a Rule

```ruby
rule 'my first rule' do
  received_command My_Switch, to: ON
  run do
    My_Light.on
  end
end
```

This applies to file-based rules. See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder}

### Create a Rule with One Line of Code

```ruby
received_command(My_Switch, to: ON) { My_Light.on }
```

This applies to file-based rules. See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Terse Terse Rules}

### Create a Rule in the Main UI

See [Creating Rules in the UI](docs/usage/ui-rules.md)

### Get the Triggering Item

```ruby
event.item
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Name

```ruby
event.item.name
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Label

```ruby
event.item.label
```

### Get the Triggering Item's State

```ruby
event.state
```

or

```ruby
event.item.state
```

```ruby
# Item can be compared against their state
if event.item.state == ON
  # do something
end
# or (preferable)
if event.item.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Previous State

```ruby
event.was
```

Example:

```ruby
if event.was.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Compare Triggering Item's State Against Previous State

```ruby
event.state > event.was
```

### Get the Received Command

```ruby
event.command
```

Example:

```ruby
if event.command.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Create a Member-of-Group Trigger

```ruby
rule 'Trigger by Member of' do
  changed gGroupName.members
  run do |event|
    logger.info "Triggered item: #{event.item.name}"
  end
end
```

### Run a Rule on Start Up

```ruby
rule 'initialize things' do
  on_start # This also triggers whenever the script (re)loads
  run { logger.info 'Here we go!' }
end
```

### Use Multiple Triggers

```ruby
rule 'multiple triggers' do
  changed Switch1, to: ON
  changed Switch2, to: ON
  run { |event| logger.info "Switch: #{event.item.name} changed to: #{event.state}" }
end
```

When the trigger conditions are the same, the triggers can be combined

```ruby
rule 'multiple triggers' do
  changed Switch1, Switch2, to: ON
  run { |event| logger.info "Switch: #{event.item.name} changed to: #{event.state}" }
end
```

### Use Multiple Conditions

```ruby
rule 'multiple conditions' do
  changed Button_Action, to: ['single', 'double']
  run { |event| logger.info "Action: #{event.state}" }
end
```

### Create a Simple Cron Rule

```ruby
rule 'run every day' do
  every :day, at: '2:35pm'
  run { Amazon_Echo_TTS << "It's time to pick up the kids!" }
end
```

```ruby
rule 'run every 5 mins' do
  every 5.minutes
  run { logger.info 'openHAB is awesome' }
end
```

```ruby
rule 'Anniversary Reminder' do
  every '10-15' # Trigger on 15th of October at midnight
  run do
    things['mail:smtp:mymailthing'].send_mail('me@example.com', 'Anniversary Reminder!', 'Today is your anniversary!') 
  end
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder.every Every Trigger}

### Create a Complex Cron Rule

```ruby
rule 'cron rule' do
  cron '0 0,15 15-19 L * ?'
  run { logger.info 'Cron run' }
end
```

or an easier syntax:

```ruby
rule 'cron rule' do
  cron second: 0, minute: '0,15', hour: '15-19', dom: 'L'
  run { logger.info 'Cron run' }
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder.cron Cron Trigger}

### Use Rule Guards

```ruby
rule 'motion sensor' do
  updated Motion_Sensor, to: ON
  only_if { Sensor_Enable.on? } # Run rule only if Sensor_Enable item is ON
  not_if { Sun_Elevation.positive? } # and not while the sun is up
  run { LightItem.on }
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#only_if only_if}, {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#not_if not_if}

### Restrict Rule Executions to Certain Time of Day

```ruby
rule 'doorbell' do
  updated DoorBell_Button, to: 'single'
  between '6am'..'8:30pm'
  run { play_sound 'doorbell_chime.mp3' }
end
```

### Stop a Rule if the Triggering Item’s State is NULL or UNDEF

Use `next` within a file-based rule, because it's in a block:

```ruby
next unless event.item.state?
```

Use `return` within a UI rule:

```ruby
return unless event.item.state?
```

### Suppress Item State Flapping

Only execute a rule when an item state changed and stayed the same for a period of time. This method 
can only be done using a file-based rule.

```ruby
rule 'Announce pool temperature' do
  changed Pool_Temperature, for: 10.minutes # Only when temp is stable for at least 10 minutes
  only_if { Pool_Heater.on? } # And only when the pool heater is running
  run { say "The pool temperature is now #{Pool_Temperature.state}" }
end
```

### Add a Pause / Sleep / Delay

```ruby
sleep 1.5 # sleep for 1.5 seconds
```

See Ruby docs on [sleep](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Kernel.html#method-i-sleep)

`sleep` should be avoided if possible. A {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#delay delay}
can be inserted in between two execution blocks to achieve the same result. This delay is implemented with a timer.
This is available only on file-based rules.

```ruby
rule 'delay something' do
  on_start
  run { logger.info 'This will run immediately' }
  delay 10.seconds
  run { logger.info 'This will run 10 seconds after' }
end
```

Alternatively a timer can be used in 
either a file-based rule or in a UI based rule using {OpenHAB::DSL.after after}

```ruby
rule 'delay something' do
  on_start
  run do
    logger.info 'This will run immediately' 
    after(10.seconds) do
      logger.info 'This will run 10 seconds after'
    end
  end
end
```



## Things

### Get Thing Status

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].status
```

### Check if Thing is Online

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].online?
```

or

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].status == ThingStatus::ONLINE
```

### Enable/Disable a Thing

```ruby
thing = things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv']

thing.disable
logger.info "TV enabled: #{thing.enabled?}"

thing.enable
logger.info "TV enabled: #{thing.enabled?}"
```

## Timers

### Create a Timer

```ruby
after 3.minutes do
  My_Light.on
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL.after after}, [duration](../usage/misc/time.md#Durations)

### Reschedule a Timer

A timer can be rescheduled inside the timer body

```ruby
after 3.minutes do |timer|
  My_Light.on
  timer.reschedule # This will reschedule it for the same initial duration, i.e. 3 minutes in this case
end
```

Or it can be rescheduled from outside the timer

```ruby
my_timer = after 3.minutes do
  My_Light.on
end

my_timer.reschedule # Use the same initial duration
```

It can be rescheduled to a different duration

```ruby
after 3.minutes do |timer|
  My_Light.on
  timer.reschedule 1.minute
end
```

### Manage Multiple Timers

Multiple timers can be managed in the traditional way by storing the timer objects in a Hash:

```ruby
@timers = {}

rule 'a timer for each group member' do
  received_command gOutdoorLights.members do
  run do |event|
    if @timers[event.item]
      @timers[event.item].reschedule 
    else
      @timers[event.item] = after 3.minutes do # Use the triggering item as the timer ID
        event.item.off
        @timers.delete(event.item)
      end
    end
  end
end
```

However, a built in mechanism is available to help manage multiple timers, and is done in a thread-safe manner.
This is done using timer IDs.
The following rule automatically finds and reschedules the timer matching the same ID, which corresponds to each group member.

```ruby
rule 'a timer for each group member' do
  received_command gOutdoorLights.members do
  run do |event|
    after 3.minutes, id: event.item do # Use the triggering item as the timer ID
      event.item.off
    end
  end
end
```

Furthermore, you can manipulate the managed timers using the built-in {OpenHAB::DSL::TimerManager timers} object.

```ruby
# timers is a special object to access the timers created with an id
rule 'cancel all timers' do
  received_command Cancel_All_Timers, to: ON # Send a command to this item to cancel all timers
  run do
    gOutdoorLights.members.each do |item_as_timer_id|
      timers.cancel(item_as_timer_id)
    end
  end
end

rule 'reschedule all timers' do
  received_command Reschedule_All_Timers, to: ON # Send a command to this item to restart all timers
  run do
    gOutdoorLights.members.each do |item_as_timer_id|
      timers.reschedule(item_as_timer_id)
    end
  end
end
```


 
## Use Metadata

```ruby
metadata = My_Item.metadata['namespace'].value
```

See {GenericItem#metadata}

## Use Persistence

```ruby
daily_max = My_Item.maximum_since(24.hours.ago)
```

See {OpenHAB::Core::Items::Persistence}

## Use Semantic Model

```ruby
LivingRoom_Motion.location                            # Location of the motion sensor
                 .equipments(Semantics::Lightbulb)    # Get all Lightbulb Equipments in the location
                 .members                             # Get all the member items of the equipments
                 .points(Semantics::Switch)           # Select only items that are Switch Points
                 .on                                  # Send an ON command to the items
```

See {Semantics}

## Use Logging

```ruby
logger.info("My Item's state is: #{My_Item.state}")
```

See {OpenHAB::Log Logging}

## Use Actions

See [Actions](docs/usage/misc/actions.md)

### Publish an MQTT Message

```ruby
things['mqtt:broker:mybroker'].publish_mqtt('topic/name', 'payload')
```

### Send an Email

```ruby
things['mail:smtp:mymailthing'].send_mail('me@example.com', 'Subject', 'message body')
```

### Play Sound Through the Default Audio Sink

```ruby
play_sound 'sound_file.mp3'
```

### Execute a Command

```ruby
Exec.executeCommandLine('/path/to/program')
```

## Date/Time

### Use ZonedDateTime

```ruby
ZonedDateTime.now + 30.minutes
# or
30.minutes.from_now # Return a ZonedDateTime
```

### Convert ZonedDateTime to Ruby Time

```ruby
ZonedDateTime.now.to_time
```

### Convert Ruby Time to ZonedDateTime

```ruby
Time.now.to_zoned_date_time
```

### Work with LocalTime

```ruby
if LocalTime.now > LocalTime.parse('7am')
  logger.info 'Wake up!'
end
```

```ruby
# The range can cross midnight
if between('10pm'..'5am').cover?(LocalTime.now)
  logger.info 'Sleep time'
end
```

See {OpenHAB::CoreExt::Java::LocalTime LocalTime}

### Work with MonthDay

```ruby
if MonthDay.now == MonthDay.parse('02-14')
  logger.info "Happy Valentine's Day!"
end
```

See {OpenHAB::CoreExt::Java::MonthDay MonthDay}

For more examples, see [Working With Time](../usage/misc/time.md)

## Ruby

### Install Additional Gems

```ruby
gemfile do
  source 'https://rubygems.org'
  gem 'httparty'
end
```

See [Inline Bundler](docs/usage/misc/gems.md)

### Use Shared Library

See [Shared Code](../usage/misc/shared_code.md)

## Miscellaneous

### Get the UID of a Rule 

This applies to file-based rules:

```ruby
rule_obj = rule 'my rule name' do
  received_command My_Item
  run do
    # rule code here
  end
end

rule_uid = rule_obj.uid
```

### Get the UID of a Rule by Name

```ruby
rule_uid = rules.find { |rule| rule.name == 'This is the name of my rule' }.uid
```

### Enable or Disable a Rule by UID

```ruby
rules[rule_uid].enable
rules[rule_uid].disable
```

### Run a rule by UID

```ruby
rules[rule_uid].trigger
```

### Use a Java Class

```ruby
java_import java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter

formatter = DateTimeFormatter.of_pattern('yyyy MM dd')
```

```ruby
formatter = Java::JavaTimeFormat::DateTimeFormatter.of_pattern('yyyy MM dd')
```

See: [Calling Java from JRuby](https://github.com/jruby/jruby/wiki/CallingJavaFromJRuby)

Commit message:

formalize nil return for ensure.command(samestate)
ensure.command will return nil when the item
is already in the same state. This applies to #update,
and Enumerable

docs/examples/how_do_i.md, after:

# @title How Do I...?

# How Do I...?

## Items

### Get an Item

Items and Groups are referred to by their name:

```ruby
My_Item
```

```ruby
gWindowBlinds
```

Items can be retrieved dynamically:

```ruby
the_item = items['My_Item'] # This returns an item object, not just its state
# For all intents and purposes, the_item variable is the same as My_Item in the previous example
```

### Get the Item's Name as a String

```ruby
My_Item.name
```

### Get the Item's Label

```ruby
My_Item.label
```

### Get a Related Item

```ruby
my_light_item = items[My_Switch.name.sub('_Switch', '_Light')]
```

### Send a Command to an Item

These three variants do the same thing:

```ruby
My_Item.on
```

```ruby
My_Item.command ON
```

```ruby
My_Item << ON
```

Note: all possible commands are supported on the corresponding item types, e.g. `on`, `off`, `up`, `down`, `play`, `pause`, `stop`, etc. 
For more details, see the individual item type sub-sections under {OpenHAB::Core::Items}

### Send a Command to an Item Only When Its State is Different

```ruby
My_Item.ensure.on
```

```ruby
My_Item.ensure.command ON
```

```ruby
My_Item.ensure << ON
```

```ruby
# ensure causes the command to return nil if the item is already in the same state
logger.info("Turning off the light") if My_Item.ensure.off
```

### Send a Timed Command

A {OpenHAB::DSL::Items::TimedCommand Timed Command} is similar to the OpenHAB Item's 
[expire parameter](https://www.openhab.org/docs/configuration/items.html#parameter-expire)
but it offers more flexibility. It removes the need to manually create a timer.

```ruby
My_Switch.on for: 5.minutes
```

### Send an Update to an Item

```ruby
My_Switch.update ON
```

### Get State of an Item

The Item's state is accessible through `Item.state`.

```ruby
if My_Item.state == ON
  # do something
end

# This syntax is equivalent and preferred:
if My_Item.on?
  # do something
end

if Indoor_Temperature.state > 20 | '°C' || Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state
  # do something
end
```

Note: all boolean helper methods are available depending on the item / state type.
For example `up?`, `down?`, `closed?`, `open?`, etc.

### Check if an Item's state is NULL of UNDEF

```ruby
if My_Item.state?
  logger.info 'My_Item is not NULL nor UNDEF'
end
```

### Compare Item's State

```ruby
String_Item.state == 'test string'
Number_Item.state > 5.3
items['Number_Item'].state == 10

Temperature_Item.state > 24 | '°C'
Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state 
Indoor_Temperature.state > Outdoor_Temperature.state + 5 | '°C'
Indoor_Temperature.state - Outdoor_Temperature.state > 5 | '°C'
```

### Get the Thing Linked to an Item

```ruby
linked_thing = My_Item.thing
thing_uid = My_Item.thing.uid
```

### Get All Linked Things

An item can be linked to multiple things.

```ruby
My_Item.things.each do |thing|
  logger.info("Thing: #{thing.uid}")
end
```

## Groups

### Get the Members or All Members of a Group

```ruby
# direct members
gTest.members

# direct members and all their descendents
gTest.all_members
```

### Intersection of Two Groups

Group members work like a [Ruby array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Array.html) 
so you can use `&` for intersection, `|` for union, and `-` for difference.

```ruby
curtains_in_family_room = gFamilyRoom.members & gCurtains.members
```

### Iterate Over Members of a Group

```ruby
gTest.members.each do |item|
  # process item
end

# Iterate over all members, including members of members
gTest.all_members.each do |item|
  # process item
end
```

### Filter Members of a Group

```ruby
members_that_are_on = gTest.members.select(&:on?)

# exclude state
members_that_are_not_on = gTest.members.reject(&:on?)

# Filter with code:
high_temperatures = gTemperatures.members.select(&:state?).select { |item| item.state > 30 | '°C' }
```

See [Accessing elements in a Ruby array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Array.html#class-Array-label-Accessing+Elements).

### Get a sorted list of Group members matching a condition

```ruby
sorted_items_by_battery_level = gBattery.members
                                        .select(&:state?) # only include non NULL / UNDEF members
                                        .select { |item| item.state < 20 } # select only those with low battery
                                        .sort_by(&:state) 
```

### Get a List of Values Mapped from the Members of a Group

```ruby
battery_levels = gBattery.select(&:state?) # only include non NULL / UNDEF members
                         .sort_by(&:state)
                         .map { |item| "#{item.label}: #{item.state}" } # Use item state default formatting
```

### Perform Arithmetic on Values from Members of a Group

```ruby
weekly_rainfall = gRainWeeklyForecast.members.sum(&:state)
```

## Rules

### Create a Rule

```ruby
rule 'my first rule' do
  received_command My_Switch, to: ON
  run do
    My_Light.on
  end
end
```

This applies to file-based rules. See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder}

### Create a Rule with One Line of Code

```ruby
received_command(My_Switch, to: ON) { My_Light.on }
```

This applies to file-based rules. See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Terse Terse Rules}

### Create a Rule in the Main UI

See [Creating Rules in the UI](docs/usage/ui-rules.md)

### Get the Triggering Item

```ruby
event.item
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Name

```ruby
event.item.name
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Label

```ruby
event.item.label
```

### Get the Triggering Item's State

```ruby
event.state
```

or

```ruby
event.item.state
```

```ruby
# Item can be compared against their state
if event.item.state == ON
  # do something
end
# or (preferable)
if event.item.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Get the Triggering Item's Previous State

```ruby
event.was
```

Example:

```ruby
if event.was.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Compare Triggering Item's State Against Previous State

```ruby
event.state > event.was
```

### Get the Received Command

```ruby
event.command
```

Example:

```ruby
if event.command.on?
  # do something
end
```

### Create a Member-of-Group Trigger

```ruby
rule 'Trigger by Member of' do
  changed gGroupName.members
  run do |event|
    logger.info "Triggered item: #{event.item.name}"
  end
end
```

### Run a Rule on Start Up

```ruby
rule 'initialize things' do
  on_start # This also triggers whenever the script (re)loads
  run { logger.info 'Here we go!' }
end
```

### Use Multiple Triggers

```ruby
rule 'multiple triggers' do
  changed Switch1, to: ON
  changed Switch2, to: ON
  run { |event| logger.info "Switch: #{event.item.name} changed to: #{event.state}" }
end
```

When the trigger conditions are the same, the triggers can be combined

```ruby
rule 'multiple triggers' do
  changed Switch1, Switch2, to: ON
  run { |event| logger.info "Switch: #{event.item.name} changed to: #{event.state}" }
end
```

### Use Multiple Conditions

```ruby
rule 'multiple conditions' do
  changed Button_Action, to: ['single', 'double']
  run { |event| logger.info "Action: #{event.state}" }
end
```

### Create a Simple Cron Rule

```ruby
rule 'run every day' do
  every :day, at: '2:35pm'
  run { Amazon_Echo_TTS << "It's time to pick up the kids!" }
end
```

```ruby
rule 'run every 5 mins' do
  every 5.minutes
  run { logger.info 'openHAB is awesome' }
end
```

```ruby
rule 'Anniversary Reminder' do
  every '10-15' # Trigger on 15th of October at midnight
  run do
    things['mail:smtp:mymailthing'].send_mail('me@example.com', 'Anniversary Reminder!', 'Today is your anniversary!') 
  end
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder.every Every Trigger}

### Create a Complex Cron Rule

```ruby
rule 'cron rule' do
  cron '0 0,15 15-19 L * ?'
  run { logger.info 'Cron run' }
end
```

or an easier syntax:

```ruby
rule 'cron rule' do
  cron second: 0, minute: '0,15', hour: '15-19', dom: 'L'
  run { logger.info 'Cron run' }
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::Builder.cron Cron Trigger}

### Use Rule Guards

```ruby
rule 'motion sensor' do
  updated Motion_Sensor, to: ON
  only_if { Sensor_Enable.on? } # Run rule only if Sensor_Enable item is ON
  not_if { Sun_Elevation.positive? } # and not while the sun is up
  run { LightItem.on }
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#only_if only_if}, {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#not_if not_if}

### Restrict Rule Executions to Certain Time of Day

```ruby
rule 'doorbell' do
  updated DoorBell_Button, to: 'single'
  between '6am'..'8:30pm'
  run { play_sound 'doorbell_chime.mp3' }
end
```

### Stop a Rule if the Triggering Item’s State is NULL or UNDEF

Use `next` within a file-based rule, because it's in a block:

```ruby
next unless event.item.state?
```

Use `return` within a UI rule:

```ruby
return unless event.item.state?
```

### Suppress Item State Flapping

Only execute a rule when an item state changed and stayed the same for a period of time. This method 
can only be done using a file-based rule.

```ruby
rule 'Announce pool temperature' do
  changed Pool_Temperature, for: 10.minutes # Only when temp is stable for at least 10 minutes
  only_if { Pool_Heater.on? } # And only when the pool heater is running
  run { say "The pool temperature is now #{Pool_Temperature.state}" }
end
```

### Add a Pause / Sleep / Delay

```ruby
sleep 1.5 # sleep for 1.5 seconds
```

See Ruby docs on [sleep](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.6/Kernel.html#method-i-sleep)

`sleep` should be avoided if possible. A {OpenHAB::DSL::Rules::BuilderDSL#delay delay}
can be inserted in between two execution blocks to achieve the same result. This delay is implemented with a timer.
This is available only on file-based rules.

```ruby
rule 'delay something' do
  on_start
  run { logger.info 'This will run immediately' }
  delay 10.seconds
  run { logger.info 'This will run 10 seconds after' }
end
```

Alternatively a timer can be used in 
either a file-based rule or in a UI based rule using {OpenHAB::DSL.after after}

```ruby
rule 'delay something' do
  on_start
  run do
    logger.info 'This will run immediately' 
    after(10.seconds) do
      logger.info 'This will run 10 seconds after'
    end
  end
end
```



## Things

### Get Thing Status

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].status
```

### Check if Thing is Online

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].online?
```

or

```ruby
things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv'].status == ThingStatus::ONLINE
```

### Enable/Disable a Thing

```ruby
thing = things['lgwebos:WebOSTV:main-tv']

thing.disable
logger.info "TV enabled: #{thing.enabled?}"

thing.enable
logger.info "TV enabled: #{thing.enabled?}"
```

## Timers

### Create a Timer

```ruby
after 3.minutes do
  My_Light.on
end
```

See {OpenHAB::DSL.after after}, [duration](../usage/misc/time.md#Durations)

### Reschedule a Timer

A timer can be rescheduled inside the timer body

```ruby
after 3.minutes do |timer|
  My_Light.on
  timer.reschedule # This will reschedule it for the same initial duration, i.e. 3 minutes in this case
end
```

Or it can be rescheduled from outside the timer

```ruby
my_timer = after 3.minutes do
  My_Light.on
end

my_timer.reschedule # Use the same initial duration
```

It can be rescheduled to a different duration

```ruby
after 3.minutes do |timer|
  My_Light.on
  timer.reschedule 1.minute
end
```

### Manage Multiple Timers

Multiple timers can be managed in the traditional way by storing the timer objects in a Hash:

```ruby
@timers = {}

rule 'a timer for each group member' do
  received_command gOutdoorLights.members do
  run do |event|
    if @timers[event.item]
      @timers[event.item].reschedule 
    else
      @timers[event.item] = after 3.minutes do # Use the triggering item as the timer ID
        event.item.off
        @timers.delete(event.item)
      end
    end
  end
end
```

However, a built in mechanism is available to help manage multiple timers, and is done in a thread-safe manner.
This is done using timer IDs.
The following rule automatically finds and reschedules the timer matching the same ID, which corresponds to each group member.

```ruby
rule 'a timer for each group member' do
  received_command gOutdoorLights.members do
  run do |event|
    after 3.minutes, id: event.item do # Use the triggering item as the timer ID
      event.item.off
    end
  end
end
```

Furthermore, you can manipulate the managed timers using the built-in {OpenHAB::DSL::TimerManager timers} object.

```ruby
# timers is a special object to access the timers created with an id
rule 'cancel all timers' do
  received_command Cancel_All_Timers, to: ON # Send a command to this item to cancel all timers
  run do
    gOutdoorLights.members.each do |item_as_timer_id|
      timers.cancel(item_as_timer_id)
    end
  end
end

rule 'reschedule all timers' do
  received_command Reschedule_All_Timers, to: ON # Send a command to this item to restart all timers
  run do
    gOutdoorLights.members.each do |item_as_timer_id|
      timers.reschedule(item_as_timer_id)
    end
  end
end
```


 
## Use Metadata

```ruby
metadata = My_Item.metadata['namespace'].value
```

See {GenericItem#metadata}

## Use Persistence

```ruby
daily_max = My_Item.maximum_since(24.hours.ago)
```

See {OpenHAB::Core::Items::Persistence}

## Use Semantic Model

```ruby
LivingRoom_Motion.location                            # Location of the motion sensor
                 .equipments(Semantics::Lightbulb)    # Get all Lightbulb Equipments in the location
                 .members                             # Get all the member items of the equipments
                 .points(Semantics::Switch)           # Select only items that are Switch Points
                 .on                                  # Send an ON command to the items
```

See {Semantics}

## Use Logging

```ruby
logger.info("My Item's state is: #{My_Item.state}")
```

See {OpenHAB::Log Logging}

## Use Actions

See [Actions](docs/usage/misc/actions.md)

### Publish an MQTT Message

```ruby
things['mqtt:broker:mybroker'].publish_mqtt('topic/name', 'payload')
```

### Send an Email

```ruby
things['mail:smtp:mymailthing'].send_mail('me@example.com', 'Subject', 'message body')
```

### Play Sound Through the Default Audio Sink

```ruby
play_sound 'sound_file.mp3'
```

### Execute a Command

```ruby
Exec.executeCommandLine('/path/to/program')
```

## Date/Time

### Use ZonedDateTime

```ruby
ZonedDateTime.now + 30.minutes
# or
30.minutes.from_now # Return a ZonedDateTime
```

### Convert ZonedDateTime to Ruby Time

```ruby
ZonedDateTime.now.to_time
```

### Convert Ruby Time to ZonedDateTime

```ruby
Time.now.to_zoned_date_time
```

### Work with LocalTime

```ruby
if LocalTime.now > LocalTime.parse('7am')
  logger.info 'Wake up!'
end
```

```ruby
# The range can cross midnight
if between('10pm'..'5am').cover?(LocalTime.now)
  logger.info 'Sleep time'
end
```

See {OpenHAB::CoreExt::Java::LocalTime LocalTime}

### Work with MonthDay

```ruby
if MonthDay.now == MonthDay.parse('02-14')
  logger.info "Happy Valentine's Day!"
end
```

See {OpenHAB::CoreExt::Java::MonthDay MonthDay}

For more examples, see [Working With Time](../usage/misc/time.md)

## Ruby

### Install Additional Gems

```ruby
gemfile do
  source 'https://rubygems.org'
  gem 'httparty'
end
```

See [Inline Bundler](docs/usage/misc/gems.md)

### Use Shared Library

See [Shared Code](../usage/misc/shared_code.md)

## Miscellaneous

### Get the UID of a Rule 

This applies to file-based rules:

```ruby
rule_obj = rule 'my rule name' do
  received_command My_Item
  run do
    # rule code here
  end
end

rule_uid = rule_obj.uid
```

### Get the UID of a Rule by Name

```ruby
rule_uid = rules.find { |rule| rule.name == 'This is the name of my rule' }.uid
```

### Enable or Disable a Rule by UID

```ruby
rules[rule_uid].enable
rules[rule_uid].disable
```

### Run a rule by UID

```ruby
rules[rule_uid].trigger
```

### Use a Java Class

```ruby
java_import java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter

formatter = DateTimeFormatter.of_pattern('yyyy MM dd')
```

```ruby
formatter = Java::JavaTimeFormat::DateTimeFormatter.of_pattern('yyyy MM dd')
```

See: [Calling Java from JRuby](https://github.com/jruby/jruby/wiki/CallingJavaFromJRuby)
